add blog for ingress2gateway v1.0 (#54672)
kubernetes/website: content/en/blog/_posts/2026/ingress2gateway-v1-0-release.md

---
title: "Announcing Ingress2Gateway 1.0: Your Path to Gateway API"
slug: ingress2gateway-1-0-release
tags: ["Gateway API", "Networking", "SIG Network", "Migration"]
authors: [
    "[Beka Modebadze](https://github.com/bexxmodd) (Google)",
    "[Steven Jin](https://github.com/Stevenjin8) (Microsoft)"

> ]

Reviewer: Try this:
```suggestion
author: >
  [Beka Modebadze](https://github.com/bexxmodd) (Google),
  [Steven Jin](https://github.com/Stevenjin8) (Microsoft)
```

* translate Ingress resources to Gateway API with `ingress2gateway` and apply generated resources
* verify that the Gateway API controllers and the Ingress controller exhibit equivalent behavior.

A comprehensive test suite not only catches bugs in development, but also ensures the correctness of the translation, especially given [surprising edge cases and unexpected defaults](Link to article with these), so that you don't find out about them in production.

### Notification & Error Handling System

Migration is not "one-click" and surfacing subtleties and untranslatable behavior is as important as translating supported configuration.
The 1.0 release cleans up the formatting and content of notifications, so it is clear what is missing and how you can fix it.

## Using Ingress2Gateway

Ingress2Gateway is a migration assistant, not a one-shot replacement.
Its goal is to

* migrate supported Ingress configuration and behavior
* identify unsupported configuration and suggest alternatives
* reevaluate and potentially discard undesirable configuration

The rest of the section shows you how to safely migrate the following Ingress NGINX configuration

> ```yaml=

Reviewer: Drop the trailing = unless you have evidence it won't be a maintenance headache. It safe to omit.

apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
kind: Ingress
metadata:
  annotations:

>     nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/proxy-body-size: "1g"

Reviewer: If this also works, let's use uppercase:
```suggestion
    nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/proxy-body-size: "1G"
```

    nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/use-regex: "true"
    nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/proxy-send-timeout: "1"
    nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/proxy-read-timeout: "1"
    nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/enable-cors: "true"
  name: my-api
  namespace: my-api
spec:
  ingressClassName: nginx
  rules:
    - host: my-api.example.com
      http:
        paths:
          - backend:
              service:
                name: website-service
                port:
                  number: 80
            path: /users/(\d+)
            pathType: ImplementationSpecific
  tls:
    - hosts:
        - my-api.example.com
      secretName: my-api-tls
```

### 1. Install the Toolkit

Install the binary with

```bash
go install github.com/kubernetes-sigs/ingress2gateway@v1.0.0
```

or

```bash
brew install ingress2gateway
```

> You can also download the binary from [GitHub](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/ingress2gateway/releases/tag/v1.0.0) or [build from source](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/ingress2gateway/)

Reviewer: I don't know if we can make it available via https://dl.k8s.io/ but it would be nice if we could try.

    nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/proxy-body-size: "1G"
    nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/use-regex: "true"
    nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/proxy-send-timeout: "1"
    nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/proxy-read-timeout: "1"
    nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/enable-cors: "true"
    nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/configuration-snippet: |
      more_set_headers "Request-Id: $req_id";
  name: my-api
  namespace: my-api
spec:
  ingressClassName: nginx
  rules:
    - host: my-api.example.com
      http:
        paths:
          - backend:
              service:
                name: website-service
                port:
                  number: 80
            path: /users/(\d+)
            pathType: ImplementationSpecific
  tls:
    - hosts:
        - my-api.example.com
      secretName: my-api-tls
```

### 1. Install Ingress2Gateway

Install the binary with

```bash
go install github.com/kubernetes-sigs/ingress2gateway@v1.0.0
```

or

```bash
brew install ingress2gateway
```

You can also download the binary from [GitHub](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/ingress2gateway/releases/tag/v1.0.0) or [build from source](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/ingress2gateway/)

### 2. Run Ingress2Gateway

> You can either pass Ingress2Gateway Ingress manifests, point it at a namespace in your cluster, or your whole cluster

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can pass Ingress2Gateway Ingress manifests, or point the tool at a specific namespace or your entire cluster.
```

          - backend:
              service:
                name: website-service
                port:
                  number: 80
            path: /users/(\d+)
            pathType: ImplementationSpecific
  tls:
    - hosts:
        - my-host.example.com
      secretName: my-secret
```

### 1. Install Ingress2Gateway

If you have a Go environment set up, you can install Ingress2Gateway with

```bash
go install github.com/kubernetes-sigs/ingress2gateway@v1.0.0
```

Otherwise,

```bash
brew install ingress2gateway
```

You can also download the binary from [GitHub](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/ingress2gateway/releases/tag/v1.0.0) or [build from source](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/ingress2gateway/).

### 2. Run Ingress2Gateway

You can pass Ingress2Gateway Ingress manifests, or have the tool read directly from your cluster.

```bash
# Pass it files
ingress2gateway print --input-file my-manifest.yaml,my-other-manifest.yaml --providers=ingress-nginx > gwapi.yaml
# Use a namespace in your cluster
ingress2gateway print --namespace my-api --providers=ingress-nginx > gwapi.yaml
# Or your whole cluster
ingress2gateway print --providers=ingress-nginx > gwapi.yaml
```

> **Note:** You can also pass `--emitter <kgateway|envoy-gateway>` to output implementation-specific extensions.

Reviewer: Given we use another callout later, how about this:
```suggestion
{{< note >}}
You can also pass `--emitter <kgateway|envoy-gateway>` to output implementation-specific extensions.
{{< /note >}}
```
